Quick Teal Mongoose

high

# `NounsDAOProposals.sol` - The `GRACE_PERIOD` adjustments can lead to reactivate and execute expired Pproposals

## Summary
The `NounsDAOProposals.sol` contract is a crucial component of the Nouns DAO governance system, enabling token holders to propose, vote on, and execute changes within the ecosystem. It facilitates a structured proposal process, from initiation and voting phases to final execution or cancellation. Each proposal goes through a lifecycle, including states such as Active, Succeeded, Defeated, Queued, Executed, Expired, and Canceled.

## Vulnerability Detail
The problem is the inability to cancel proposals that have reached the Expired state. The `cancel()` function is designed to prevent cancellation of proposals in their final states, including Canceled, Defeated, Expired, Executed, and Vetoed. However, treating Expired as a final state overlooks the potential for the `GRACE_PERIOD` parameter of the timelock to be adjusted due to upgrades, which could retroactively alter the state of a proposal from Expired back to Queued.

### Exploit Scenario: Manipulating Proposal Outcomes via GRACE_PERIOD Adjustment in NounsDAOProposals.sol Contract

**Background**
Kevin is a member of the Nouns DAO and has submitted a high-stakes proposal (Proposal A) to invest a significant amount of the DAO's funds into a new, promising DeFi protocol. The proposal passes and enters the Queued state, awaiting execution. However, due to a sudden downturn in the DeFi protocol's security, it's discovered that the protocol is at risk of being exploited.

**Initial State**
Proposal A is now considered risky, and the majority of the DAO members believe it should not be executed. As the execution date approaches, due to unforeseen circumstances, the proposal fails to get executed and subsequently moves to the Expired state based on the current GRACE_PERIOD setting of the timelock.

**The Vulnerability**
1. Eva, a malicious actor with administrative access to the timelock contract or significant influence in the DAO, proposes to extend the GRACE_PERIOD due to a separate, seemingly unrelated issue. This proposal (Proposal B) is quickly passed and executed, extending the GRACE_PERIOD significantly.

2. Due to the extension of the GRACE_PERIOD, Proposal A's state changes from Expired back to Queued. Most DAO members are unaware of this change or its implications.

3. Eva then covertly funds the DAO's timelock with enough assets to meet the requirements of Proposal A. Since it's back in the Queued state and the community is unaware, he executes Proposal A, directing a large sum of the DAO's funds to the now-compromised DeFi protocol.

4. The compromised DeFi protocol is exploited soon after, resulting in the loss of all funds sent there by the Nouns DAO as a result of Proposal A's execution.

## Impact
This vulnerability poses a risk of unintended execution of proposals that were previously considered Expired but became executable due to changes in the `GRACE_PERIOD`. In scenarios where the financial or operational context has changed significantly since the proposal's expiration (e.g., a proposed DeFi investment becoming unviable due to a protocol hack), the inability to cancel such proposals can lead to substantial losses or adverse outcomes for the DAO.

Summarized Impact:
- Governance Manipulation
- Financial Risks
- Legal and Regulatory Concerns
- Operational Disruptions (Workflow Interruptions or Policy Inconsistencies)

## Code Snippet
- [`NounsDAOProposals.sol#cancel()`](https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-03-nouns-dao-2/blob/main/nouns-monorepo/packages/nouns-contracts/contracts/governance/NounsDAOProposals.sol#L518-L560)
```solidity
    /**
     * @notice Cancels a proposal only if sender is the proposer or a signer, or proposer & signers voting power
     * dropped below proposal threshold
     * @param proposalId The id of the proposal to cancel
     */
    function cancel(NounsDAOTypes.Storage storage ds, uint256 proposalId) external {
        NounsDAOTypes.ProposalState proposalState = stateInternal(ds, proposalId);
        if (
            proposalState == NounsDAOTypes.ProposalState.Canceled ||
            proposalState == NounsDAOTypes.ProposalState.Defeated ||
            proposalState == NounsDAOTypes.ProposalState.Expired ||
            proposalState == NounsDAOTypes.ProposalState.Executed ||
            proposalState == NounsDAOTypes.ProposalState.Vetoed
        ) {
            revert CantCancelProposalAtFinalState();
        }

        NounsDAOTypes.Proposal storage proposal = ds._proposals[proposalId];
        address proposer = proposal.proposer;
        NounsTokenLike nouns = ds.nouns;

        uint256 votes = nouns.getPriorVotes(proposer, block.number - 1);
        bool msgSenderIsProposer = proposer == msg.sender;
        address[] memory signers = proposal.signers;
        for (uint256 i = 0; i < signers.length; ++i) {
            msgSenderIsProposer = msgSenderIsProposer || msg.sender == signers[i];
            votes += nouns.getPriorVotes(signers[i], block.number - 1);
        }

        require(
            msgSenderIsProposer || votes <= proposal.proposalThreshold,
            'NounsDAO::cancel: proposer above threshold'
        );

        proposal.canceled = true;
        INounsDAOExecutor timelock = getProposalTimelock(ds, proposal);
        for (uint256 i = 0; i < proposal.targets.length; i++) {
            timelock.cancelTransaction(
                proposal.targets[i],
                proposal.values[i],
                proposal.signatures[i],
                proposal.calldatas[i],
                proposal.eta
            );
        }

        emit NounsDAOEventsV3.ProposalCanceled(proposalId);
    }
```

## Tool used
Manual Review

## Recommendation
Several things can be done here:
1. Modify the `cancel()` function to allow for the cancellation of Expired proposals. This change acknowledges that the Expired state may not be final if the GRACE_PERIOD is adjustable.
2. Implement an explicit expiration time field in the proposal structure. This field should be set during the queueing process based on the current GRACE_PERIOD, ensuring that the proposal expiration is clearly defined and immutable post-queueing.
3. Implement a mechanism to notify DAO members of changes to the timelock's GRACE_PERIOD, allowing for informed decisions regarding ongoing and future proposals.